Welcome to virtex and edge slide in this video.
You'll learn about edge and virtex sliding and see.
This is a useful way of refining your model without having to create or remove existing geometry.
So let's go explore.
Jim burtis sliding and hop on over in a blender.
Okay so now there were over in blender one of the first things that you'll see in is suddenly on my
model your model might be a little more refined.
Is that there is a certain level of detail in some places and things need a bit moving about so there's
a vertex's that's sticking out there as we go around the model.
So it's quite a sharp point.
There's another one here.
It gets a bit wobbly in places so we can straighten that up specially along this bit here.
That's also very very wobbly.
There's a couple of ways that we can go about sorting that out.
And I'd like to introduce you to Ed sliding and virtex sliding.
So for instance this syeed Edge loop Let's go to edge loops first logo s loop running all the way down
there and terminating at the neck.
If we wanted to do something with that we can slide it and would access the edge menu some mesh edges
or control in e you notice on here there's something called Edge slide.
Now we can also get to the edge slide function by pressing the G key twice so we can see here that I'm
able to move the entire loop in between the two bounding loops and indeed push up against the next one.
Now if you do end up as you can see there with it's smack bang up against the next one.
Ah I've got merged vs. turned on so that fortunately got rid of that graphical artefact we were seeing
there.
If I didn't have it turned on this press the G key twice and slide it in you could see it as Ed slide
down in the lower left and slide it all the way up against this one.
We get this horrible artefacts coming up and that's a good sign that you've got an intersecting faces
or in fact in this case two edges right on top of one another and we've got all this.
Well not very smooth shading any more.
You can see it abruptly changes blender literally doesn't know what to do because you've got one edge
and another edge on top of one another.
And what smooth shaven tries to do is sort of interpolate between the normals of that particular edge
and it can't do that if they're on top of one another.
So it goes all messy and it wound and undo that now cause that's not something I want to do.
Similar to Ed's sliding is vertex sliding and that is simply when you are you probably guessing what's
coming along here where you grab a vertex and this tiny pressure Gee twice.
And it goes to virtex slide or indeed you can get it through control and V for the virtex manual.
Go down to the menu system itself and we end up with virtex slide as well and you can see the short
cut for that as well can be shift and V.
Okay so now we're actually sliding with the G key twice.
We can see that we're actually moving along the path of that edge easier in this direction or that direction
you can see here that you can only go in one direction at any one time.
You also get this this all white sort of guide coming up as well.
Now I've also got snapping turned on some is going to turn that off so it's not going to do anything
abrupt so I can press G twice R and D shift and V.
It's just a short cut to the same place and this is literally just moving it along the edges.
This vertex is part of and that can be incredibly powerful if we if we look at the side of a head here
going round.
We've got for instance this area.
Here's all a bit lumpy so we can go here and say well you know this loop that's coming around here.
Well this one here for instance.
Might just go it does it actually add anything useful.
Did I had it there for the.
Is I think I might have done so.
Is this one here useful.
I don't think it is and if that's the case we can always delete that and dissolve edges and that will
get rid of fat one.
There being a problem now of course we've got this here that's sticking out a little.
This one here.
And by moving them with a combination of manually moving them.
Or of course using the slide functionality.
It's a slice of functionality is absolutely brilliant for lets say we need to move this one going around
here.
Yep that one going round there that's a good one to pick and just move it out a little wider.
That's the one defining the eye.
Let's not pick that one so this one here we can press the G key twice and pull it back along those edges
that already exist and that will help smooth out our model as it goes around.
That's the face morphs around so that is how you use the edge and virtex sliding tools.
And of course no lecture is complete without a little challenge.
I would like you to go ahead and refine your model.
So go around your model and check for your edge loops are where you need them to be.
Do a little bit of adjustment again.
Well basically doing the overall shape at the moment.
I've noticed mine starting to get a bit flat in places.
Do you need as much geometry as you've currently got.
The main area of focus really at the moment is the face and there's going to be this side of the head
itself to do the ear in a bit but the back of a head is it can be quite large quads going on there.
If you want it we don't need that much detail around the back of a head because there isn't that much
detail.
Check your vertices too and move them if necessary as a move them using slide tool if they need adjustment
or indeed move them manually as well.
Or use any other techniques that you want.
It's a pause a video now and do a little of refining of your model.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go and have a look at my model and see if there's any intermediate refining that we can do.
Okay so where.
Back over here.
And I'm just having a look at things like this loop coming around here.
Is this a loop anymore.
No it's not.
So what's happened here we've got quad running around here that's pretty sharp just there as well.
It's difficult sometimes get an angle on it because if you're out of this view it looks at a really
sharp view.
Around here it looks quite gradual but I think that one does need lifting up ever so slightly.
I didn't mean to press the vignola I mean the press shift and V.
If that up ever so slightly and did the same with this one and again by using shift V rather than just
moving its up manually you can guarantee that it's laying on line you've already defined so you don't
end up pushing the model up too tightly which is very easy to do.
So that's looking okay here.
This is atrocious all this detail running round the back here.
There's a couple of ways we can get around that.
One of the first things I'd look at is whether or not we can terminate some of these loops coming around
where they're not needed.
So we're certainly going to need loops towards this part of the model and we can see that here.
We might want another loop running around here.
So I'm going to cut back in.
Now we're going to end up with a triangle here that we can sort out.
Amber I'm going to just come along.
Our model very manually here I know and pop in that set of cuts I'm quite happy with that that's going
to define that.
The face.
And then we've got this one running around that will hopefully define the head yes.
Unhappy With that running round there.
So then we've got the question of all of these other ones here.
Now we can start terminating these as we go we can start merging together to make Well slightly odd
quads.
So for instance here we can get rid of and dissolve every other edge so it's dissolve those edges so
you've got a series of faces here.
Now we've got to remember at this point in time we don't need to worry too much about having a bad topology
just above here we can go and fix that later.
One of the first things I'm Ask going to do at this point in time is start weeding out of the verses
we don't need.
In fact at this point it's a speed myself up what I'm going to do is not do what holes have mapped to
do and go in and select and go round the model and see where these go to surveil lead to about here
here and here I think I might be wrong.
That's just double check.
I could actually select one and work it from there so that one there.
Now one there.
I'm just going to delete those will not delete them but dissolve them and then I should be able to select
these loops and dissolve them.
So they're starting to look a bit better.
The final one is this one here so that one goes all the way round that she terminates here at the back
because we are a pole.
So once again I can dissolve that completely.
From our model.
Now that does cause a few little interesting bits.
Like at the bottom here what happens.
Well we can grab since I've spotted it.
Grab this with virtex slap and just put that bit together there.
And that ensures that at least this says loop going down the back rounded up the front.
Excellent That's what I wanted to see is still hold.
Now obviously it terminates here and what we can do and it's not a bad thing to terminate here.
We could actually leave it like that in many ways because I don't think it's going to show up anything
particularly bad.
And the reason for that is at the top of the head it's not going to be animated.
So we could potentially leave it for that I'd like good topology around here.
So we'll work on that later when it comes to a bit of detail.
This triangle at the front here be quite awesome to have that working all the way round and down.
Now we've got to think here if this is a loop that runs all the way there we're missing something aren't
really win this one runs all the way down.
But this one is terminated with a triangle here.
So one of these edges needs some extra supports.
But of course that itself would be diving into the detail.
Speaking of which look about I'm just looking at it from the front and that is stuck out like a sore
thumb so I'm going to grab those two there.
When you shift and V to slide them down ever so slightly and with snapping turned off are not v.
Shift them visalus undo that shift and be.
I do prefer actually pressing the G key twice.
I feel like I'm not going to make too many mistakes by using that shortcut key rather than ripping my
model apart accidentally.
So we'll come back later on and sort out this triangle here after we've learnt a bit more about how
we can define edge loops with much more detail.
How is your model coming along.
Did you refine it to make it a bit more in proportion.
Did you have anything that was glaringly obvious standing out.
Please share that work in the discussions and I will see you in the next lecture.